Hello there! Welcome to Quotidian!
I have just one more bit pending from this
movie. I will "move on" after that! He comes.
He crosses the ditch and walks past the big
rock. He wants to try lifting it just one
more time. Again, there is the furtive glance
to ensure nobody is watching. Looks like he
is going to be able to lift it this time.
He lifts it… Nobody is watching, till now.
The first spectator comes along…
What happened? Why did he panic and throw it away, just when
he was in the brink of victory?
Fear of the stage. That was what it was. They
call it "Stagefright". I am sure we all have
experienced that. The precocious child wonder
who sings so well at home, along comes a visitor,
and we beseech the child to demonstrate their
skill, and… "nothing comes out"! For some
of us, the problem is too real. A microphone
in front of us actually makes it seem like
we are staring down the cold lethal barrel
of a gun.
The symptoms are quite classic too. Choking!
Fainting! Elevated heartbeat rate! Mortal
fear! Shivering, wobbling at your knees, sweating,
and a sensation as if you are about to throw
up! They call it the "Anxiety Attack"! They
call it "Stage Fright"! But, wait, this is
not new! This dates back to Greek times! When
you present to a large crowd, when you want
to persuade, when you want to deliver an oration,
you shiver, and you wonder, "What will other
people think"! There is this cute little Greek
practice - if there is something that
happens often enough, and is prevalent enough
popularly, they end up giving a word for it.
Allodoxaphobia. That's what they called it.
"allo" stands for "different", "doxa" stands
for "opinion", and of course, "phobia" is
"fear". So, a word, right there, for the fear
of what different opinions other people might
have. A fear of what other people might think.
There are many "antidotes" for this. Many
techniques. Books have been penned. Video
courses exist. There are clubs. Speaking clubs,
presenting clubs, mastering the art of public
speaking,… Don't focus on any body, they
would say. Don't lock your eyes on to anybody.
Just look "generically". Some would suggest,
"focus on some little dot way back in the
last row, on the wall". Another suggestion
would be "Prepare well, practice, practice,
practice". And of course, a natural at this
art would say, "None of the above works. Just
go ex tempore. Ad lib. Let it flow". My dad
used to tell me "Assume everybody in front
of you are sheep. You are the expert. The
rest of them are just herds of sheep. It will
automatically flow"! There is a documented
technique of inserting rounded stones into
your mouth and practising singing or speaking!
Demosthenes, a famous Greek philosopher and
orator, a king too, he had this unusual habit
of competing with the breaking waves in the
seashore, trying to keep his focus and present
his thoughts against the loud noise made by
the sea.
My favorite trick though, is this.
Olin Miller once said "You probably wouldn't
worry about what people think of you, if you
could know how seldom they do".
You won't be worried what they would be mocking
you with, what criticism they would be levelling,
if only you knew that when you were delivering
your speech, most of them were looking at
their watch wondering when the lunch break
would be, most of them were looking at their
watch planning their sprint to the taxi stand
to avoid the last minute rush, they simply
don't CARE about you! Please understand that
first!
The irony of it all? I went searching, who
this Olin Miller is… Such a nice quote.
Who was he? Shall we use a photo of this person
when posting this quote? In the great internet,
I couldn't (easily) find a single photograph
of who this Olin Miller is, nobody knows who
he is, nobody knows when he was born, nothing!
Olin Miller spake thus! That's all we know!
Olin Miller himself is proof for the maxim
that he contributed to this world "Nobody
really bothers enough or has time enough to think about you!"